and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
ben leonard ben's the founder over
econbrokers.co.uk
and he has grown and sold a seven figure
e-commerce business and it took him just
three short years ben and welcome to the
show sir how you doing good to be here
thanks for having me sam
no worries dude so looking forward to
this we're gonna be chatting all things
e-commerce online businesses growing and
how easy or how difficult it is to sell
one
so i want to throw you in at the deep
end as i do with many of my guests sir
and um
i want to know
can any tom dick or harry can they start
an online store an online business and
can they sell it after selling a few
products is it as easy as that
unfortunately not um any tom dick or
harry can
start an online business scale it up and
then sell it but you can't just decide
one day after you've sold a few products
oh this is worth tons i'm gonna sell it
tomorrow it's not quite simple i'm
afraid there's quite a lot of work that
has to go into it
got it got it so let's let's talk about
that let's talk about kind of really
keen to to learn myself and share with
our audience
what makes an e-commerce business get to
a point of when it's ready to when it
when it's ready to sell in terms of kind
of the revenue generated
and what what really adds value to a
business i guess so perhaps if you want
to share a bit about your experience and
we can talk about talk along that along
the way
sure yeah well so i'll give a bit of
background so that people kind of
understand where i'm coming from with
this um i got into e-commerce in late
2015 early 2016. um my background before
that was science
um ecology
and um i had to to stop work for a while
because i had a heart problem i'm fine
now but i also had to stop my fitness
hobbies so for whilst i was recovering
no more boxing no more crossfit no more
running around like a maniac
and i was pretty bored and pretty
miserable and needed something to do
and so i had this idea to create a brand
of fitness equipment because i felt like
the equipment i had could be better
um it could be better quality and could
have been better value
for that for the quality and so i
created a brand of fitness equipment
which was called beast gear
and it turned out i was pretty good at
it
i i ended up quitting my job i scaled
that business up and after about three
and a half years it was doing around uh
four million pounds in sales
and i sold it um in late 2019
which was right before the current
explosion we're seeing in
buying and selling e-commerce businesses
right and
when i sold it i sold it through a
broker
and the experience with that broker
could have been better
there were things that they did that
they could have done better and things
that they didn't do at all that they
could have done
fortunately
my accountant who looked after the
accounts for my business beast gear she
has about 20 years mergers and
acquisitions experience and she wrote in
uh my shoes my knight in shining armor
and saved the day
and we did a fair bit of work together
to fix the issues which
the silver lining was i actually was
able to negotiate down the commission of
the broker because they hadn't done
their job properly
and so at the end of that process we
said well there's a gap here to give
e-commerce business owners a better
experience we can combine our skill sets
me on the e-commerce side understanding
what it is like
day-to-day to run an e-commerce business
and allison my co-founder on the
accountancy side in the m a site
and so that's kind of what what led us
to this point and and i guess led to
your question about you know what it
takes to be able to to sell an
e-commerce business
um
and it needs to really be
two things and those two things are
they're almost but not quite one and the
same but they're just very very linked
and and whatever affects one also
affects the other and that's
the business needs to be sellable
and valuable
okay so
for instance
if you're selling
a uh a random mishmash of products
um potentially on one sales channel say
your own your own shopify site
there's no particular cohesive brand
and you're relying perhaps on one source
of traffic
that's not very sellable
nor is it very
if you're doing big numbers it might be
so it might in theory be quite valuable
but it's not very sellable because
your business isn't very strong you
don't have a very wide moat around it of
protection you're reliant on traffic
from one source so let's say facebook
ads if your facebook ads get shut down
you're in a pickle
and
you have no real
ip
or brand identity around the business
because it's a mishmash of me too
products that anyone else could do and
that's not a you need to put yourself in
the shoes of who might buy your business
it's not an attractive proposition
nobody really wants to buy that what
you've created is a perfectly fine job
but it's not a business
especially if it relies on you so that's
another aspect of what makes a business
um
sellable
is
how transferable is it
and an easy way to gauge how
transferable your business is is if you
fall down the stairs tomorrow and break
your legs and have to go to hospital for
a while
will it run without you for a decent
chunk of time and if the answer is yes
then that's great you've got a pretty
transferable business if the answer is
no then you don't and now's a good time
to start making it more transferable by
uh developing systems and processes such
that other people can look after it for
you so they could be employees or they
could be freelancers or you might have a
fair amount of automation built into
your business
that makes a business quite sellable
because it lowers the costs which makes
it attractive to a potential buyer and
it increases the value so maybe you're
automating social media pay-per-click
chat bots inventory management traffic
email flows receipts
all that types of things
gotcha gotcha um i've rambled on a bit
there's tons more things to make
businesses
yeah let's unpack that a little bit so
in terms of those those are some great
points so the business needs to be
sellable it needs to be valuable i like
that so just to dive into the first
point ben so you mentioned
was it not having one single type of
product or not having a product that's
easily resellable by other companies
that could just pick up the same product
or brand having something a bit more
unique is that what you meant as the
first point or is that yeah
if you have a shopify site or an amazon
account or whatever it is that sells a a
mishmash of products with no brand
identity behind it that is a much more
difficult sell
than if you have built a a suite of
products
that is a brand that solves a series of
related problems for a particular group
of people so for instance
um you might have a knitting brand and
you have a a an almost evangelical
following of knitting fans who will buy
your new products again and again
because they appreciate what you stand
for within the knitting community and
they are
following you all over uh pinterest and
instagram tick tock this type of stuff
whereas if you're drop shipping or even
not drop shipping random stuff
that's really not very sellable and that
was that's very much of the um
the e-commerce gold rush days of 2014-15
when everyone thought we can just do
that on amazon or shopify and uh make a
ton of money and you could but you
couldn't build a sellable asset
doing that got it so we're talking about
i guess it's a little bit like in b2b
understanding your icp your ideal client
profile so we're talking about knowing
exactly who you're selling to
building a brand around that
that solves a certain problem that these
idle customers care about solving and
then focusing on that audience rather
than just trying to sell casting open a
wide open net trying to sell to anyone
and everyone
you've got to kind of
hone in on who you want why
basically build a brand
that's that's that's the the best way to
do it and so some
potential clients that i speak with have
unfortunately fallen into the trap of
not really doing that but it's not too
late
because within that mishmash of products
they probably have
you know let's say they're doing 20 skus
uh they probably have five that are
closely related to each other and
another three that are closely related
to each other another four that are
closely related to each other yeah and
those are opportunities to actually take
some time and develop those groups of
products into
you know brands or micro brands if you
prefer and and take the time to
strengthen the business and make it more
sellable and valuable such that in
another 12 18 months it is a more
attractive proposition for a buyer
yeah yeah
so in
without going into this in too much time
ben and feel free to use yourself or any
prospects or clients as an example was
there any way that you define that
yourself or was it just through your own
pain that you put together your business
your proposition your target audience is
there any kind of secrets or any tips
that you could advise someone that's
looking to for a quick way to hone in on
who they can sell to and the problem
they can solve yeah um i guess the first
question you should the first thing you
should always focus on is people rather
than products it's not about what you
can sell it's about who you can sell to
yep
and it really helps if you're trying to
scratch your own age so solve a problem
that you care about
for instance um we mentioned shopify a
couple times the founder of shopify toby
lupke uh developed was trying to develop
a website to sell his own snowboards
realized actually the itch there was
having a platform on which to build an
ecommerce website simply for a non-coder
and so he scratched his own inch and
built shopify for example if you want to
build a knitting brand please make sure
you love knitting that type of thing
yeah um so
that's what it's about it's about
understanding the problems that your
your customers have and developing a
suite of products to solve those
problems
and then in terms of
telling that story
um a fantastic framework that i'm a big
fan of is the story brand framework by
donald miller it's very good
it's phenomenal it's it's so simple and
it just works so read a book called
building a story brand by donald miller
and he's written several others that
kind of slot in there and help
and focus on on on that building a brand
and one of the mistakes i see people
making as well as they get too bogged
down in
um
nitty gritty stuff like
pro you know they're trying to find a
trick or a hack to find a product to
sell
rather than just think about
what what am i passionate about and what
can i build a brand around
and then it's not about where you're
selling it it's not about becoming you
know an amazon uh expert or a shopify
expert it's about having a brand which
sells on multiple sales channels so one
thing that will make your brand um more
sellable and valuable is diversification
and and that goes right across the
business so
having multiple sales channels so you
could be selling on your own site on
shopify you could be selling
on etsy you could be selling on amazon
yeah and then diversification in terms
of uh markets so are you selling in the
uk are you selling in the eu are you
selling in the us
diversification in terms of skus i'm not
saying you need hundreds like a sweet
spot would be between you know three and
30 i think
and traffic have you got a diversified
range of traffic sources such that if um
if your facebook ads account gets shut
down for whatever reason or the rules
change or new regulation comes into your
industry about what you can and can't
advertise and where you can and can't
advertise it you're not in a pickle
because you have a diverse range of
traffic sources so that's important and
this is just good business sense right
so because this is stuff i i ramble on
about on linkedin on the podcast all the
time don't put don't place all your or
your eggs and rent it or in one basket
or on rented land it's just like you say
if your business is relying on one
channel be that linkedin be that
facebook be that social ads be that
pay-per-click be the seo google ads
whatever the heck email marketing
whatever that channel is if that crashes
if that burns down tomorrow your
business is screwed so like completely
yeah i mean make sure
yeah
you're absolutely right and one of the
things that the happy side effects of
this is when you make your business more
sellable and
valuable it your business is naturally
becomes more efficient and will scale
anyway and so that's why a lot of people
some people listening might be saying
but i love my business i don't want to
sell it and i never want to sell it
well i would argue that
probably one day you are going to want
to sell it because if you take a step
back and say what am i going to be doing
in 5 years 10 years 15 years are you
going to want to still do it are you
going to have to get up and go to still
doing it are your kids going to want to
take it on from you how has the industry
changed
what has how is the technology changed
have you kept up with that what about
the competition that's flooding in from
all over the place probably one day
there is going to need to be an endgame
and it's probably going to need to be a
sale so if you start making your
business more sellable and valuable now
knowing that you don't want to sell just
yet but further down the line
the good news is that when you do wake
up in three years time and say you know
what i think i want to sell
your you've done half the battle has won
because your business is really neat and
tidy and ready to go and there's a great
book another book recommendation
it's called built to sell by john warlow
fantastic book which if you read and
implement the advice in that even if you
don't want to sell your business your
business is going to really really come
on a lot from it
great i'll make a make a note of that
check that and the episode no it's cool
all right ben um
so there's there's a lot more to discuss
but i
some some great points there around
kind of not relying on one channel
around making sure that your business
can still run if you're not around which
i'm sure i've kind of fallen guilty of
before and i'm sure a lot of people are
stuck in that point so if you if you get
injured if something tragic happens to
you you've still got the i guess the
systems processes stuff whatever it may
be in place to keep it flowing keep it
growing um excuse the rhine so with that
all said
once we've once we've got these points
in mind we're thinking about making it
sellable we're thinking making it
valuable
how do we
get it to the point where we know
we can sell it i suppose if if we think
yeah we're selling a good amount of
stock we're driving some good revenue
things are going quite well
does that just become a point where one
day where we say yep it's sales time or
are there several things we need to
consider before it's ready to i guess
bring it to the marketplace
so
the answer to this question is uh
multifaceted and part of it is
qualitative and part of it is
quantitative
and part of it is emotional
so um
let's start with it with a pretty simple
uh way of talking about it uh you want
to sell your business when it's growing
but you haven't maxed out growth
because a potential buyer wants to see
growth
and see that there will still be growth
after they've bought it because of
course they want to buy the business
which is growing and then accelerate
that growth and probably exit themselves
further down the line
so you don't want to have maxed out
growth you want to leave some meat on
the bone
that's part of it
the other part of it
is
to reverse engineer the exit because
you need to know you need you need to
know what you're going to sell the
business for
right how much you're going to sell it
for and
you you need to have a magic number in
your head probably
so a great way a great way to think
about this is find out regardless of
whether you want to sell now six months
or three years from now or never
is find out now what your business is
worth
either by and i can explain in a few
moments how you can do that yourself
which won't be as accurate as working
with an expert
find out now what your business is worth
and then consider that in terms of your
industry and the way it's going and your
personal life and
what would be your magic walk away
number
and think about well how do we get from
a to b because otherwise you're just
navigating you're orienteering without a
map or a compass and you don't know
where you are
yeah so if you find out what your
business is worth now and what you would
like to sell it for you can then reverse
engineer that exit you can stack up the
dominoes of the things you need to do to
get there to make your business
as valuable and sellable enough to to
sell it for that price
of course
provided that's a realistic goal you
know
i do talk to people who are
on another planet sometimes and i have
to bring them back down to earth because
unfortunately as much as they may you
know they may want to sell their
business for for 10 million the market
doesn't lie it's never going to be worth
10 million
gotcha and then sorry
yeah i was just gonna say so you'll
probably go on to this ben but
what are some of the tools or some of
the ways that we can
do that exact process so yeah we can
work out the magic number we want to
sell to but how can we realize what our
business is worth right now so we can
start planning where we need to get to
so
i guess the question really then is is
how do we value an e-commerce business
um and in i'm gonna for the purposes of
this podcast because there's a
a broad audience i'll keep it uh pretty
simple but there's always exceptions
basically we multiply the trailing 12
months performance
by a multiple
so
people listening like well what do you
mean by performance well
we measure the performance of the
business
on the trailing 12 months
sde which stands for seller's
discretionary earnings
which is basically your net income
plus some backs and adjustments i'll
explain what those are in a moment
or
we measure it according to your trailing
12 months ebitda which is your earnings
before interest taxes depreciation and
amortization
um
let's keep it simple and talk about sde
because in e-commerce more often than
not we talk about sde
okay it basically represents the entire
financial benefit that your business
would provide to one full-time owner
operator even if it's not going to be
bought by a full-time owner operator
it's just the way that we we think about
it
so we take your your sde
which as i mentioned is basically your
net income plus
add-backs and adjustments and we
multiply it by a multiple
so
what are add-backs and adjustments um
add-backs
basically are costs which the new owner
won't have to bear
and they can come in several forms they
might be personal expenses so uh
your salary
maybe you're putting your internet
through the business maybe you're
putting your health insurance through
the business
travel that type of thing
new new owner of the business isn't
going to have to take care of that
particularly if it's a larger
organization that's absorbing your brand
into their wider ecosystem
and then we have one-off costs that
simply won't apply so for instance um
you've recently had some trademarks uh
done by an attorney it's not gonna have
to be done again that's an ad bank
your videography that you just had done
on a product not gonna be done again
that's an ad pack the photography the
translation the copywriting not gonna be
done again that's an ad back
and maybe you have recurring costs that
won't apply to a new owner you're paying
for various software packages you've
been paying for some consulting you've
been paying an agency to manage your
pay-per-click none of that's going to be
done by the new owner so that's all add
back so we're taking
lines from the lost part of your pnl
statement and removing them and boosting
your profit effectively boosting your
your selling destruction returns
and then adjustments
are a little bit more uh
complex
these are changes that recognize change
in the p l in the last 12 months
and the reason we make these adjustments
is to recognize what is the true value
of the business to the new owner on day
zero that they purchase it
so for example
suppose you're selling
sunglasses and three months ago you
negotiated a lower price with your
supplier for your sunglasses
well if we're valuing the business on
the trailing 12 months performance that
new lower price is only going to benefit
you for the last three months since you
negotiated that lower price but the new
owner is going to have the benefit of
that new lower price
going forward
so it's perfectly reasonable to adjust
your sde as if every unit of those
sunglasses you'd bought for the last 12
months was at the new lower price
immediately boosting your sde or your
profit if you like
when you do that across multiple
products
that can add significant amounts of
money to the value of your business
because it then compounds after we
multiply the sde by the multiple
the here's another one for you
let's say
four months ago you actually increased
the price that you sell your sunglasses
for
and when you did that you didn't see a
drop in sales they stayed the same or
went up perhaps because customers now
view your product as being more premium
or you've recently gone viral something
like that
well the new owner is going to have the
benefit of selling the products at that
new higher price point so it's
reasonable for us to adjust as if you'd
always sold them at a higher price plan
that's just two examples there's a ton
of really um
uh sophisticated adjustments that can be
done when you work with the right expert
and so you you you take
you know you might believe your your net
profit is is whatever but actually after
you've gone through the right process
with an
expert to add back and adjust
the true value of your business is
boosted
and so then we multiply that by a
multiple
and the multiple in e-commerce is at the
moment anywhere between about two and a
half all the way up to seven seven is
pretty rare
and it really depends on quite a vast
difference right yeah it really depends
on a whole variety of factors
um you know how much intellectual
property do you have around your
business how long has it has it existed
what are your sales numbers
how diversified are you i mentioned you
know all those diversification aspects
earlier so
like say you're doing a hundred grand in
sde
so
just to avoid confusion more or less
your profit plus your ad backs and
adjustments yeah your business is two
years old it's reasonably diversified
it's growing you can probably get
between you know three and a half and
four x
um
on the other hand if your sde is 500 000
with massive off amazon sales lots of
intellectual property maybe you've got
patents
you're seeing enormous growth
uh it's five years old you're probably
looking at more like four and a half to
six
and
so what's really exciting there right is
it's not just a case of oh um i've got a
hundred grand ste and i can multiply it
by three and sell it for for three
hundred thousand and if i have 500 grand
sde i can multiply it by three and sell
it for one and a half million
it's actually
not only as the sde goes up your
multiple goes up as well so it's a
compounding effect so rather than
multiplying that 500 by the three you're
more like multiplying the 500 by the
four and a half or five which is getting
really you know that's when it gets
really exciting
nice are there so this this is getting
fairly detailed for some of these maths
is as poor as mine ben but are there any
resources that we could point people to
um because i want to keep this pushing
forward is there anything yeah
just say look go to this site link or
check out this guide and then everyone
tuning in can go and work it out for
themselves
yep go to
econbrokers.com ebook and there's a free
ebook on how to uh get prepare your
business for sale awesome awesome that's
great so with with that kind of um
calculation in mind and it's like you
say i appreciate there's going to be
it's going to vary for each business to
business but hopefully your guide can
help them along the way um
once we've worked out and i guess once
we actually know the what our business
is worth now
where we realistically want to get to um
it's a case of making that happen
following those golden rules that we
talked about at the start
to actually see that revenue that sells
growth
what's the process we need to consider
when it actually comes to
we think we're we're at a spot we've had
the calculation we need to get to what's
the process we need to go down to
actually sell is it as easy as just
chucking it online and finding a broker
and jobs are good in or is there a is
there a bit more to it
um
it sort of is as easy as that um let me
explain there are there are several ways
you can sell it um sure you could
approach a buyer directly
maybe a competitor of yours
or maybe um one of the uh many uh
aggregators who've emerged in the last
18 24 months in the e-commerce space who
are rolling up e-commerce brands into
their portfolio to exit later on or they
might approach you
and
a lot of e-commerce business owners
right now are getting approached by
these aggregators um they're scraping
um they're scraping shopify they're
scraping wordpress they're scraping
amazon etsy etc to find business owners
and they're they're sending cold
outreach emails and letters saying we we
really like your business we'd love to
buy it from you in reality they know
nothing about your business it's just uh
you know they're just throwing as many
two or three of those scraped emails a
day
yeah
and initially it seems wonderful it's
very exciting you know you've put your
heart and soul into your business you've
cried down the phone to uh to amazon
seller support you've you've worked hard
on your facebook ads
and um
suddenly somebody wants to offer you
quite a lot of money for your business
but unfortunately when you deal directly
with with a buyer like that um
you're going to end up selling your
business for far less than it's really
worth and on terms that suits them and
not you and it's really hard work to try
and sell it yourself they will
basically dangle a carrot in front of
you that's probably quite a lot of money
maybe more money than you ever dreamed
of having
but in reality your business isn't worth
a carrot it's worth a whole sack of
carrots
which is why you really need to take it
through a
proper process to get it ready for sale
okay so in response to
that model the other option that emerged
was flipping it so there's quite a lot
of websites now which will say that they
can flip your business which i think is
um
almost disrespectful to to say take
someone's hard hard work
um and say that we're going to flip it
rather than carefully sell it and so
what they do is they effectively list
your website um on their their site
almost like the ebay of businesses
right and ultimately you will still end
up working directly with a with a buyer
and uh
the valuation that you get will be poor
because these flipper services
don't offer a very uh sophisticated or
bespoke service to actually calculate
what your business is truly worth
because they're working at quite a scale
and it's not accountants that are doing
that work
their fees are very high
and the service is not very um hands-on
so in response to that model another
model emerged
whereby uh consultants uh offer to work
with you so they'll also reach out to
you and they'll say hey i can sell your
business and i'll only take four or five
percent
um the problem with these guys is
they're double dipping
so um they'll say i'll only take four or
five percent but with such a low fee
they can't really be doing very much
work so what they do is they they just
email a list of hundreds of potential
buyers and see who wants to buy it and
take a a referral kickback off the buyer
you know upwards of 50 grand um and that
50 grand should have been paid to you
right the buyer has just taken it out of
what they would have paid you for your
business
so the better option is to take it
through a mature process with a
qualified broker
um which is what happens in every other
industry right if you want to sell your
bricks and mortar shop you work with a
broker but ecommerce we're in a new wild
west of mergers and acquisitions in
e-commerce it's only become mainstream
in the last 18 months to sell your
online uh business
um
so ideally you want to work with a
broker who's got experience on all sides
they're business owners who understand
e-commerce
they are uh m a experts and their
accountants
and the reason it's so important to work
with experts like that is that
when we i spoke about the calculation
before
when you get that right you can add six
or seven figures to the value of your
business if you think about how many
different um configurations there might
be of adding back all those costs
um
with your with your products that i
mentioned
yep then quick one so you you mentioned
we need to find a qualified broker and
you've obviously get listed the
positives and negatives of each route to
market of each option when it comes to
selling
but for someone that's completely fresh
to this perhaps they've got an econ
business that's doing pretty well and
they want to scope out someone who's
going to be qualified who's professional
is going to do a good job and sell their
business for what it's worth are there
is there a checklist
so we don't basically screw ourselves
over is there anything we should look
for whether that's accreditations
whether that's questions to ask and
before we agree to actually pick this
specialist this broker whoever it may be
to
sell our business for us
yep um so i'll be asking about their uh
experience in e-commerce there's a lot
of brokers out there who have
traditionally worked in bricks and
mortars have no e-commerce experience
and are now kind of almost trying to
sell shovels to the gold rush but
actually
don't really understand how it's how
this this industry works so they need to
have e-commerce experience
they need to have be accountants as well
um so the a lot of these flipper
services uh essentially have trained um
freelancers and virtual assistants
to uh go into your the back end of
shopify or woocommerce log into your
quickbooks or your xero
uh go into your amazon seller central
and pull out reports put them in a
google sheet and slap a value on it that
is not um
the proper process so
um they they need to have accountants
who understand the sophisticated details
of how to value a business and how to uh
appropriately adjust the financials
and then they need to have serious
mergers and acquisitions experience so
that they know how to market your
business to a pool of the right buyers
rather than just slap it on a website so
they need to cast a wide net to find
buyers because your buyers could be all
sorts of different people they could be
your competitors they could be private
individuals they could be e-commerce
aggregators they could be big boy
private equity or family office
and the broker needs to do the work to
find the buyer to earn their commission
rather than just letting it gather dust
on a website or pinging off an email to
100 people they know
gotcha gotcha so appreciate we're coming
up for time ben um but is there anything
else we need to consider we need to bear
in mind when it comes to actually the
deal the structure um does it tend to be
cash in one lump sum which would be
lovely or is it usually a bit more to it
um if you've gone through a great
process and you have a competitive
environment so you've got several
several potential buyers looking to buy
your business then you can push for
quite a lot of cash up front between you
know 17 100
some sellers will want to actually have
a bit of an earn out because they can
see where the business is going some
sellers will prefer to sell it all up
front
but suppose you sell you know 80
up front or you sell the whole business
but you get 80 cash up front at closing
you're likely to have a stability
payment
after about a year which is basically
provided the business hits the same
revenue that it did in the previous 12
months we'll give you this extra chunk
and then another chunk on an earn out
in one or two years usually
depending on how the business continues
to perform and it's up to the seller um
to to and and the broker and the
attorney that the broker connects the
seller with to really negotiate hard
because the buyer will present a deal
that's really skewed only in their favor
and it's really important that this is
brought back to the middle to something
that's a lot fairer and realistic so the
seller can really get that you know that
full sack of carrots that they deserve
rather than the one measly car that was
dangled to begin with yeah yeah yeah
that makes sense that makes sense so
usually it's it's typically um
a decent percentage chunk initially and
then there's new usually like a one-year
agreement or however long that term is
as long as we hit this revenue agreed
then we'll pay out the remaining 20 30
whatever that may be yeah but the need
and this is again where working with a
good broker and the right um solicitor
will really help is that the deal needs
to be tight so the seller's protected
because if the new owners don't run the
thing properly and they go out of stock
for example well it's not fair that the
the the seller then misses the earn out
target so they need to be provisions in
the contract to account for that type of
thing we like to put provisions and
contracts so that sellers can get
read-only access to everywhere the
products are being sold so they can
actually flag things up before they
become an issue because you know bourbon
supply chain at the new owner a half
past four on a friday afternoon doesn't
care about your earn out but you do so
if you can flag these issues early you
can avoid them
yeah that's that type of thing is really
important there's lots of other
provisions that that when you work with
the right people will be put into the
contract whereas if you just accept the
contract that was put under your nose by
the buyer when they approached you cold
it's going to be a really poor deal and
you could miss out on
six seven figures
that's great that's that's something i i
guess most people wouldn't even consider
certainly i wouldn't so make it yeah and
i don't blame them because they haven't
sold a business before
um that's it
but the thing that's really important to
remember is when we're running our
business we use experts all the time we
get expert photographers expert
copywriters expert translators expert
developers expert ppc consultants and
yet when it comes to selling our
business the most valuable asset we have
a lot of people think oh i'll do it
myself so i can avoid paying a broker
commission but actually
a good broker will earn you multiple
times over their commission because
that's the whole point of why they exist
right
good man ben very informative very
interesting really appreciate your time
dude thanks very much for coming on and
sharing your wisdom it's been um it's
been great for myself and i'm sure
everyone tuning in so with that please
tell us more about how we can learn from
you how we can connect with you and the
best way to get in touch with yourself
and your business
absolutely well i'm here to help and i'm
on all the main social media channels
including linkedin so just look up ben
leonard uh you can go to our website
directly ecom brokers dot code uk and
click on the button value my business
and we'll get the ball rolling and
finding out what your business is worth
and you can email me ben econbrokers.com
uk and i'm always here to help
good man thanks once again ben really
appreciate it we're gonna put all those
links over at the website business
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that i want to thank everyone
for tuning in as always if you enjoyed
the episode do hit that subscribe button
we interview business leaders each and
every week and we share actionable
marketing tips to grow your business and
grow your revenue and with that we
should catch you on the next one